3rd & 4th chapters of Nest GS (#6)
raven-os/getting-started: nest/04.finest.md

|      └─ stable::sys-lib/glibc#>=1
|         └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-lib/glibc#1.8.1
|            └─ and so on, until there are no depedencies left
└─ ...
```

Now, if you want to create a group of packages, the graph would then look like so:

```
@root
├─ stable::shell/dash#*
|   └─ fulfilled by stable::shell/dash#0.5.10
|      └─ stable::sys-lib/glibc#>=2
|         └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-lib/glibc#2.0.1
|            └─ and so on, until there are no depedencies left
├─ @Group1
|  ├─ requirement1
|  |  └─ fullfiled by package1  
|  └─ requirement2
|     └─ fulfilled by package2
└─ ...
```

## 4.2 finest commands
### 4.2.1 Managing packages through requirements
#### Add a requirement
The command `finest requirement add <requirement> [--parent <group>]` adds a requirement to a group.
By default, this group is `@root`.
With the `--parent` flag, you can speficy a parent group.

When adding a requirement, `finest` makes a copy of your current dependency graph (if a copy wasn't already available), adds that requirement to its parent and fulfills the dependencies of the package recursively.

Its output looks like this:

```
$ finest requirement add linux

> Adding requirement stable::kernel/linux#* to group @root...

Reviewer: I'd expect something like ```done``` after that last line.

Author: @doom

```

#### Remove a requirement
`finest requirement remove <requirement> [--parent <group>]` removes a requirement from a group.
The group is, by default, `@root`, but you can specify a parent group with the flag `--parent`.

When removing a requirement, `finest` makes a copy of your current dependency graph (if a copy wasn't already made), removes that requirement from its parent and removes its depedencies recursively if possible.

> Its output is similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its output looks like this:
```

```
$ finest requirement remove linux --parent @work
Removing requirement stable::kernel/linux#* to group @work...
```

#### Common issues
* `error: no package found for requirement <req>`

This error means that `finest` couldn't find any package to satisfy this requirement.

> What probably went wrong, is that the syntax of the requirement is incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is probably because the syntax of the requirement is incorrect.
```

You can check on [Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org/) to check the repository and the category of this requirement.

### 4.2.2 Updating the system by merging the depedency graph
#### Merging the dependency graph

> `finest merge` merges the copy of your dependency graph, on which `finest` applied the transactions, to your current dependency graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`finest merge` merges the copy of your dependency graph, on which `finest` applied the transactions, with your current dependency graph.
```
```suggestion
`finest merge` merges the copy of your dependency graph, on which `finest` applied the transactions, into your current dependency graph.
```
I don't understand what this sentence means but one of the above should be right.

These two graphs are compared to extract a list of transactions that `finest` will perform, in order to go from one graph to another.

> And so, your dependency graph will finally apply the transactions you meant to do.

Reviewer: I don't think the dependency graph is the one who does that, rather finest right?
```suggestion
And then, `finest` will finally apply the transactions you meant to do.
```

Example:
```
2 pending transactions:

 install stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96
 remove stable::sys-libs/glibc#2.0.1

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no] Y
Downloading stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96...
Successfully installed stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96
Removing stable::sys-libs/glibc#2.0.1...
Successfully uninstalled stable::sys-libs/glibc#2.0.1
```

> Important
>

> > Never forget to run `finest merge` after you're done with your requirements, or they won't be applied on the system

Reviewer: Maybe this should be mentioned above?

Author: I'd put it above the example then

### 4.2.3 Managing groups
#### Create a group
Creating a group is possible via the command `finest group create <name> [--parent <group>]`.

> It's very important to keep in mind that a group name always starts with a `@` character.

Reviewer: Is it important? It's possible to not respect this rule? Or won't finest just throw an error?

Author: yep it just throws an error, I don't know why I overstated it

By default, this will create a group as a child of the group `@root` if no parent group is provided.

Example:
```
$ finest group add @groupName
Adding group @groupName with parent group @root...
Successfully added all the specified groups.
```

#### Delete a group
In the same manner as creating a group, you can delete one with the command `finest group remove <name> [--parent <group>]`.

Example:
```
$ finest group remove @WorkGroup1
Removing group @WorkGroup1...
Successfully removed all the specified groups.
```

> #### List the groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### List all the groups
```
or
```suggestion
#### List groups
```

To list all the groups on the OS, use `finest group list`.

Example:
```
$ finest group list
@root
@WorkGroup2
@SuperCoolProject
```

## 4.3 Summary
This concludes the part of this getting-started dedicated to `finest`.

> What's left after this is a cheat sheet summarizing all the commands of both Nest binaries, and a glossary explaining the concepts and commands mentioned throughout this getting-started.

Reviewer: Sounds to informal.

Author: I'm not sure if this is any better, but it's another way to write it at least
```suggestion
In the next chapter, you'll find a cheat sheet summarizing all the commands of `nest` and `finest`.
After it is a glossary explaining the concepts and commands mentioned throughout this getting-started, with links to their respective chapters or sections.
```

Reviewer: up

# 4 finest
As explained throughout this getting-started, `finest` is the command targeted towards experienced users.

## 4.1 Key concepts
Before using `finest`, you have to understand how it works on a deeper level.
`finest` relies on 4 key concepts:
* The cache
* Transactions
* The dependency graph
* Groups

### 4.1.1 The cache
[//]: # (TODO: add link to the section 3.2)

> The cache was explained in [the section 3.2]().

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cache was explained in [section 3.2]().
```

### 4.1.2 Transactions
A transaction is an *action of `finest` on the filesystem*.
A transaction can be, for example, removing or upgrading a package.

### 4.1.3 The dependency graph
The dependency graph is a directed graph representing the dependencies of packages.

> In this graph, each node is either **a group of packages**, either **a single package**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this graph, each node is either **a group of packages** or **a single package**.
```

> Each node has a requirement that is fulfilled by another node.

Reviewer 2: You often write short independent sentences.
That looks more like a list than an actual paragraph of text.
You could probably link those sentences.
(This is only one moment where I pin it)
(There are more)

Author: I tried to fix that.
In those two files.
Maybe later I will fix it in the other files.
If that same issue happened there too.
For now, this will do I guess.
I'll try not to do that for the getting-started of nbuild.

A requirement can be fulfilled by **one** and only **one** package.
A requirement is noted as `repository::category/package#[version|version_requirement]`.

The dependency graph contains a root node named `@root`.
Using `finest`, you can add or remove requirements from any node you want.
You can't add a node without it having a parent node, so it will be `@root` by default.

When you're done making your transactions with `finest`, you have to solve the dependency graph.
`finest` has applied those transactions on a copy of your dependency graph, and when you solve it, it's actually *merging* that copy with the graph currently used by the OS.

### 4.1.4 Groups

> A group is basically a group of packages.

Reviewer 2: You should probably also say that all groups must have a name that starts with an `@`

Author: I said it in the infobox just below that paragraph. Should I add it in this paragraph instead?

Groups are a great way to manage very easily packages used for the same purpose.
For example, if you're working on a school project, you can create a group containing all the packages you need for this purpose.

> Once your project is over, you can safely delete this group, which will remove all the packages inside it, on the condition that those packages only exist in this group, and not any other one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once your project is over, you can safely delete this group, which will remove all the packages inside it if they aren't needed by another group.
```

> Note
>
> Group names always start with the character `@`.

### 4.1.5 Example of dependency graph transactions

Let's say you want to install the package `dash` through the command line, without specifying any version.

> It will be resolved as the requirement `stable::sys-devel/dash#*`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will be resolved as the requirement `stable::shell/dash#*`.
```

(You should also fix the other occurrences of `dash`)

You dependency graph will look like this:

```
@root
├─ stable::sys-devel/dash#*
├─ ...
└─ ...
```

`finest` will try to find a way to fulfill this requirement.

> Since no version was specified, it will find the latest version available, let's say 0.5.10.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since no version was specified, it will pick the latest version available, let's say 0.5.10.
```

So you'll find a new node in your graph:

```
@root
├─ stable::sys-devel/dash#*
|   └─ fulfilled by stable::sys-devel/dash#0.5.10
└─ ...
```

Now, for the sake of the example, let's say this version of `dash` depends on any version of the package `glibc`, which has a major version superior or equal to 1.

> It's going to add a new requirement to the graph, which will be fulfilled by, for example, `stable::sys-devel/glibc#1.8.1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's going to add a new requirement to the graph, which will be fulfilled by, for example, `stable::sys-libs/glibc#1.8.1`.
```

(You should also fix the other occurrences of glibc)

Author: is it `sys-libs` or `sys-lib`? I found no `sys-libs` on stable.raven-os.org

The command `finest requirement add <requirement> [--parent <group>]` adds a requirement to a group.
By default, this group is `@root`.
With the `--parent` flag, you can speficy a parent group.

When adding a requirement, `finest` makes a copy of your current dependency graph (if a copy wasn't already available), adds that requirement to its parent and fulfills the dependencies of the package recursively.

Its output looks like this:

```
$ finest requirement add linux
Adding requirement stable::kernel/linux#* to group @root...
```

#### Remove a requirement
`finest requirement remove <requirement> [--parent <group>]` removes a requirement from a group.
The group is, by default, `@root`, but you can specify a parent group with the flag `--parent`.

When removing a requirement, `finest` makes a copy of your current dependency graph (if a copy wasn't already made), removes that requirement from its parent and removes its depedencies recursively if possible.

Its output is similar to this:

```
$ finest requirement remove linux --parent @work
Removing requirement stable::kernel/linux#* to group @work...
```

#### Common issues
* `error: no package found for requirement <req>`

> You can check on [Raven-OS website](https://stable.raven-os.org/) to check which repository and which category the packages belong to.

Reviewer 2: You are not explaining what this errors means, only how to solve it.

### 4.2.2 Updating the system by merging the depedency graph
#### Merging the dependency graph
`finest merge` merges the copy of your dependency graph, on which `finest` applied the transactions, to your current dependency graph.
These two graphs are compared to extract a list of transactions that `finest` will perform, in order to go from one graph to another.
And so, your dependency graph will finally apply the transactions you meant to do.

Example:
```
2 pending transactions:

 install stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96
 remove stable::sys-devel/glibc#2.0.1

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no] Y
Downloading stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96...
Successfully installed stable::kernel/linux#4.14.96
Removing stable::sys-devel/glibc#2.0.1...
Successfully uninstalled stable::sys-devel/glibc#2.0.1
```

> Important
>

> > Never forget to run `finest merge` after you're done with your transactions, or they won't be applied on the system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Never forget to run `finest merge` after you're done with your requirements, or they won't be applied on the system
```
